Editorial Policy
In compiling this annual report, ITOCHU focuses on three functions in particu-
lar: (1) providing an in-depth understanding of its unique business model to 
a wide range of readers around the world, (2) effectively explaining the pro-
cesses and potential for ITOCHU to achieve sustainable growth in corporate 
value over the long term, and (3) by organizing our management policies and 
financial and non-financial capital and communicating them to internal and 
external stakeholders, fostering the virtuous cycle of cultivating mutual under-
standing through dialogue and achieving a greater level of management  
sophistication for the Company. 
  Annual Report 2020 was compiled based on this focus with consideration 
paid to the disclosure framework of the International Integrated Reporting 
Council (IIRC). Special emphasis was also placed on connectivity as well as 
the sustainability and future of our strategy and business model.
ITOCHU aims to steadily address social issues and rapid changes in the 
business environment, including its response to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
while being guided by its Group corporate mission, “Sampo-yoshi,” an ideals
Reporting Scope and Other Items  
Reporting Period:  April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 (Certain sections include
activities occurring in or after April 2020.)
Reporting Scope: ITOCHU Corporation and the ITOCHU Group
Accounting Standards:  Unless otherwise noted, this annual report is
prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP through 
FYE 2014, and with IFRS from FYE 2015.
Terminology:  Throughout this report, “consolidated net profit” is used to
and driving force that has allowed ITOCHU to overcome 
numerous hardships in its more than 160-year history. 
Furthermore, ITOCHU intends to build a foundation for 
sustainable growth and enhance corporate value, by  
targeting growth and further progress in both financial and 
non-financial capital that it has refined and accumulated 
to date, while moving to pursue both economic and 
social value.
In compiling this annual report, in addition to these points, we focused on
giving explanation especially for the relationship between “corporate value 
based on the perspective for investment decisions,” as it relates to the 
Company’s shares, and “the pursuit of capital efficiency,” one of the 
Company’s management strategies.
  Going forward, we intend to further improve our annual report as a medium 
for dialogue with a variety of stakeholders through reflecting their opinions.
Detailed Financial Information  
For detailed financial information for FYE 2020, please see the Financial Section.
https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/ir/doc/financial_section/
Inquiries for Annual Reports
Investor Relations Department:   +81 (3)-3497-7295
