Driving Force for Sustainable Value Creation
The Story of Merchants
government. We took advantage of this opportunity to 
secure access to what would become a massive consumer 
market in the future. We continued working to build relations 
with China, which was undergoing economic development 
under a reform and open-door policy. In the process, we 
expanded our human network and business foundations.
Comprehensive Strength Accumulated from 
Constantly Transforming Itself
General trading companies, which operate in the middle 
of the value chain, are affected by trends among sellers. In 
particular, as manufacturers transitioned toward a practice 
of selling products themselves, trading companies became 
concerned that this disintermediation could be fateful for 
them. We have faced such existential crises numerous 
times, with the 1960s marked by “the notion that trading 
companies were a declining force” and the late 1970s to 
early 80s labeled as a “period of hardship for trading com-
panies.” We have successfully overcome such adversities 
by flexibly changing the form of our business. As part of 
these initiatives, we moved upstream to secure stable 
supplies of resources and product materials. At the same 
time, we invested in downstream operations, notably 
FamilyMart, to expand our customer contact points. In 
addition to this vertical expansion of the value chain, we 
shifted toward a business model that pursued added value. 
One example was our move into the brand business in the 
Textile Company in the 1970s. By entwining our business 
investments and creating businesses in a multifaceted 
and linked manner, we have built up our comprehensive
strength. As Chubei Itoh I worded in “supplying the needs 
of the society” and the current Chairman & CEO, Masahiro 
Okafuji, explained that trading companies “are like water 
taking the form of the vessel in which it is carried, some-
times round, and sometimes square,” we transform our-
selves as a merchant sensitive to the needs of the times.
Passing on the Management Baton While Bringing 
out True Value of a History of more than 160 Years
In the late 1990s, huge holdings of underperforming assets 
led to a crisis that threatened our continued existence. 
Then-President Uichiro Niwa adopted a bold stance, 
saying “Problems created in the 20th century should be 
resolved in the 20th century.” Accordingly, in FYE 2000 we 
processed total losses of ¥400.0 billion, sweeping away 
low-efficiency and unprofitable assets. We also introduced 
a new management method, called Risk Capital 
Management and shifted funds to high-efficiency assets.
Strengthening Our Financial Position
March 31, 1999
NET DER:13.7 times
Net interest-bearing debt:  
Approximately ¥4.2 trillion
March 31, 2011
NET DER: 1.4 times 
Net interest-bearing debt: Approximately ¥1.6 trillion
ITOCHU Corporation
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
