CEO Message
Motivational messages to employees from the Chairman & CEO
on display alongside flowers on the first basement level. (March
12–June 12, as teleworking expands)
A small sampling of the messages  
“It is in times like these we need to remember to smile.”
“Spring is just around the corner.”
“Thanks for all the important work you do.”
“Starting today, it’s full speed ahead.”
its businesses. A huge gap stood between our abilities and 
the general trading companies associated with the former 
zaibatsu industrial groups. To overcome this, we took a big 
gamble; we acquired shares of TOA Oil Co., Ltd., invested 
in state-of-the-art refineries, and concluded long-term 
charter contracts with oil tankers. These actions were 
based on the observation that oil was almost 100% 
imported and the hypothesis that since reserves were pre-
dicted to be in gradual decline, quickly acquiring crude oil 
would present a major business opportunity. However, the 
1970s were visited by two oil shocks. The hypothesis was 
ruthlessly shattered when we fixed our buying price high 
and the selling price plummeted, leading to huge losses.
  At the time, our judgment of resources was not as acute 
as those of other general trading companies associated 
with the former zaibatsu industrial groups. We relied only 
on a hypothesis, and only secured “products” without 
securing stable buyers in heavy industry. It was an idea 
solely based on a “product-oriented perspective.” It was 
similar to real estate investments during Japan’s economic 
bubble where people rode the bandwagon based on the 
hypothesis that prices could “only go up.” With the collapse 
of the bubble, losses cascaded. Even now, I can clearly 
recall that time. ITOCHU was pushed to the edge by the 
disposal of out of favor resources.
I believe it is extremely dangerous to make large invest-
ments relying on the hypothetical alone. This applies to 
the “Fourth Industrial Revolution” also, where Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) and other digital technologies are devel-
oping rapidly. A revolution does not guarantee that every 
related business will steadily grow. We must avoid investing 
recklessly.
  We have to conduct business with the realization that 
we are merchants. To achieve the same level as general 
trading companies associated with the former zaibatsu 
 industrial groups, which have prime assets in the resource 
sector, we naturally decided to compete in fields where we 
have an advantage, namely the non-resource sector, which 
is centered on consumer-related businesses. We do not 
have a “large chunk” of resource businesses that can 
generate hundreds of billions of yen in profit, but if we 
practice “spear-like” management and hit key points
Page 52 Business Results for FYE 2020)
Keeping Our Promises
In the 11 years after the global financial crisis, the global 
economy had continued to expand. This left me worried 
that blowback could not be too far off. During the summer 
break in August last year, I decided to advance the semi-
annual business strategy meeting which is usually held in 
early October by one month, holding it in early September. 
At that meeting, we enacted countermeasures for worst-
case scenarios, focusing on the “prevent” and “cut” princi-
ples, which went into effect as of that day. Six months 
after, the threat materialized as the totally unforeseen 
COVID-19 pandemic. Still, ITOCHU was unshaken.
Page 40 CFO Interview)
I strongly believe that “we should always stand firmly
