Realizing Our “Sampo-yoshi” Philosophy through 
the Largest Multifaceted Development in Japan
A market-oriented perspective and an ecosystem that shares value among all stakeholders underpin our storage 
battery business. By forming one of the largest AI-equipped storage battery networks in Japan, we aim for sus-
tainable value enhancement.
spanning sales, distribution, construction, and call center
support. In designing the system, our distinctive business
In May 2010, we launched a joint pilot project in collaboration
with a number of other companies and the city of Tsukuba,
Ibaraki Prefecture, for a future low-carbon transportation system.
The multidisciplinary project combined solar power generation,
Electric Vehicles (EVs), storage batteries, and ICT. Through this
project, we have placed the steppingstones for our storage
battery business of today. This investment of time has resulted
in the accumulation of expertise and partners who share our
medium- to long-term vision. These essential assets have helped
us build the competitive advantage we enjoy today.
Taking on Challenges beyond the Bounds  
of a General Trading Company
In the 1990s, we entered the business of providing storage
battery manufacturing equipment, component materials, and
other items to manufacturers. Growth in this business relied on
battery manufacturers’ product sales. To achieve sustainable
growth, we recognized the need to expand our downstream
business and generate demand by ourselves. A solution came in
the form of a household Energy Storage System (ESS). Instead
ecosystem optimized for homes and other partners in regard to
spanning sales, distribution, construction, and call center
support. In designing the system, our distinctive business
know-how and coordination skills we had cultivated through
our strength in the non-resource sector truly came to the fore.
Amid growing awareness of the need to address power outages,
giving the rise in natural disasters, examples of Smart Star L
application are garnering attention. In addition, we have in place
a thorough market-oriented perspective, a robust sales network
that incorporates Group companies, and an optimized ecosys-
tem. These efforts enabled us to create new opportunities.
Evolution by Combining Existing Businesses 
with New Technologies
In January 2018, we entered a capital and business alliance with
Moixa Energy Holdings Ltd. of the United Kingdom, a company
that leverages AI technology in the power platform business.
Under this agreement, we acquired exclusive marketing rights in
Japan to provide Moixa’s household service. The challenge we
had taken up, to move into a position more akin to a manufac-
turer, came to fruition in this agreement under a common vision
of creating a platform that combines storage batteries with
ITOCHU Corporation
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
